# Game Design Document

Adrian Bugiel
01-04-2025

## High Level Concept

### Working Title:

Via Survivors

### Concept Statement:

A 2D top-down game with player character fighting through endless waves of enemies. In order to survive the player must avoid taking damage and gain experience, allowing the choice of various power-ups upon level up.

### Genre:

Roguelike auto-attacker

### Target Audience:

Hardcore gamers including all VIA students, also Kasper and Jacob

### Unique Selling Points:

* Fast and engaging combat
* Power-up progression system
* Deep character builds
* Designed for VIA arcade machine

## Product Design

### Player Experience and Game POV:

You play as a lone adventurer in a world filled with undead hordes of vile monsters. The game uses a top-down perspective with auto-attacks based on cooldown. The player feels constantly pressured by spawning waves of enemies. Gameplay is focused on smart positioning to avoid damange and build choices to make power-ups scale with each other.

### Visual Style:

The game will use simple sprite graphics with assets found on the internet or generated by AI. The final visual style is still to be decided but the current plan is to use gothic/medieval themed characters and environments.

### Game World Fiction:

### Platform(s), Technology and Scope

## Detailed & Game Systems Design

### Core Loops:

* Kill enemies -> Gain EXP -> Level up -> Choose power-ups -> Survive through overwhelming enemy spawns

### Objectives and Progression:

* Survive as long as possible
* Progress through endless waves of unique enemies

## Game Systems: 

* Leveling/EXP System
* Enemy Waves & Spawning System
* Health, Damage, Collision, Knockback
* Power-up synergy system

# Project Milestones

| Phase | Focus | Description |
|----------|----------|----------|
| 1 | Core Mechanics  | Player controls, enemies, combat, spawning  |
| 2  | Progression & Scaling  | Leveling, power-ups, spawning logic  |
| 3  | Replayability & Graphics  | UI, gamestates, animation  |
